[Music]
good morning good afternoon or good
evening depending on where you are
watching this and welcome to the Hoover
virtual policy briefing series I'm bill
Weiland the Hoover institutions Virginia
Hobbs carpenter Fellow and journalism
and host of Hoover's area of 45 podcast
and our recently launched Goodfellows
broadcast that airs on Wednesdays for
more than a century the Hoover
Institution has been collecting
knowledge and generating ideas that
support freedom and improve the human
condition our work has profoundly
impacted public policy initiatives here
in the United States and around the
world we're excited to be able to
connect virtually with you to showcase
the important work coming out of the
institution these policy briefings are
an opportunity for you to hear directly
from some of our nation's top scholars
on the pressing issues facing the world
during this difficult time as we
confront the challenges brought on by
kovat 19 conversations like this had
never been more important we hope you
enjoy and find value in these
discussions which will now begin as a
reminder we will be taking audience
questions and encourage you to submit
yours at the Q&A button located at the
bottom of your screen just look down on
the bottom of your screen where it says
Q&A tapping your question and we'll try
to get to it toward the end of the
broadcast today's briefing is from
Victor Davis Hanson the Martin an ileus
senior fellow here at the Hoover
Institution his focus is classics and
military history he is a best-selling
author and has written or edited 24
books the most recent of which is the
case for Trump Victor Davis Hanson has
been awarded both the National
Humanities medal and the Bradley prize
Victor you're a better man than I if I
had that medal I would have it hanging
around my neck 24/7 how are you today my
friend very good thank you for having me
thanks a interesting question I think
before we get into the policy side of
things Victor a lot of us are watching
this from population centers around the
country around the globe cities and
suburbs and exurbs
where we know the difference that has
occurred the past couple weeks life has
come to a standstill it's eerily quiet
you Victor are coming to us from a
family farm your fifth generation farmer
I might add but you're right
about 15 miles outside of Fresno I think
I'm curious as to what difference you
note in an agricultural community in
this kind of situation well I think
there's a sense that life can go on and
it will go on because agriculture by
definition is at least the production
side is a little bit of a solitary
existence and so when I'm looking out
here at almonds or I'm looking down at a
grape vineyard or a plum orchard or I
see trucks going by constantly headed
toward the coast or even in the East
Coast with chickens and eggs and beef
there's a sense that agriculture is
really important and people are looking
to it to make sure that food is
delivered to people who are sheltered
and at home and that there's not as
great a danger part because of
population population density and as I
said Fresno County is is a big County
it's got over a million people 1.2
million but we've only had a little over
a hundred cases two deaths and the other
rural counties that I live near Kings
County Tulare County Kern County they
are analogous they have far fewer cases
per million residents and far fewer
lavallee so it's not the it's not the
feeling of being in battle that we had
say at Stanford University before they
shut down Victor here we are in the year
2020 over half of Americans have been
told to stay at home business have been
told by government who's a central and
who's not people have been told to keep
their distance from each other and
there's no foreseeable end to this maybe
the end of April maybe the end of May
June July
who knows when there's one curious about
Victor if you go back and look at a
virus that struck the United States in
1957 the Hong Kong flu we could we could
use a politically incorrect term back
then called the Hong Kong flu but the
economy did not shut down in 1957 when
we went through that strain if you go
back to 1918 Victor President Woodrow
Wilson
he did not hold daily press conferences
to talk about the influenza epidemic
Congress did not do massive spending
bills in response to at the economy did
not come to a halt why are we doing
things differently in 2020 Victor as
opposed to 60 years ago and a century
ago there's a variety of reasons one is
were a much more technologically
sophisticated interconnected population
so we we do it because we can do it we
have television and the way that we're
communicating over the internet right
now so people are inure to that and they
want instant information we're much more
affluent population where we all feel
that we're gonna die in their late 70s
or 80s in our sleep that was a much more
tragic society they were the case of the
so-called Spanish flu they were in a war
which would kill about 50 million people
60 million the United States would lose
about 128 thousand almost half of them
to the flu and that was part that was
considered part of the tragic existence
and people didn't have control over
their medical their hygienic their
economic circumstances to the degree
that they feel that they do today it was
also a more tragic than therapeutic
society where people were were used to a
more physical existence I'm speaking in
this house that's been in my family for
a hundred and forty five years and they
have kind of a history and I grew up
hearing my grandparents talk about the
1918 flu and they quarantined themselves
out here but they were completely
self-sufficient they had their own water
their own to eat your own food and they
just didn't go very many places and
there was never very many places to go
then and I remember that the stories of
my aunt who went out to swim once in
1922 at 7 she got polio and she ended up
over here in the corner crippled for the
rest of her life she stayed in this
house till she died in 1980s and I can
remember the 1957 flu I was four or five
years old that's one of my first
memories that we had a tent in this
house and we had a humidifier and
we were all sort of told to breed this
era so we wouldn't die but and I
remember that everybody thought
penicillin was a miracle drug so we had
Doc Nilsson who drove out in a car and
then we went out and we rolled up our
sleeve and he gave us a shot and I don't
know whether it helped for the virus I
should say I know it didn't help for the
virus but we felt that penicillin was
still a magic drug you know Victor's the
day's the day's just kind of come one
after the another now in this situation
I get up in the morning I have breakfast
i watch Governor Cuomo give his briefing
I have a light lunch i watch gavin
newsom give his briefing I have a light
dinner I watched President Trump do his
briefing each day just seems to be a
continuation of the past you're a
historian Victor you've looked at
societies and you and all the times of
looking at the question of discipline in
this society is there any model we
should be looking at for how long a
country especially a country that values
civil liberty and freedom how long the
society can go on like this well I mean
when we've been in similar situations
world war two if you remember the
Japanese internment and the paranoia and
that didn't come I mean that came from
sober and judicious and liberal minded
leaders like earl warren and FDR they
later regretted it but at the time there
was a panic that gripped the nation and
even we we look back fondly at the
productive history of world war ii but
that was not a sustainable situation to
have that much of your gdp devoted to
military production right and i can and
i can tell you that if this thing
continues the way it's charted by some
of our modelers the the price will not
just be economic it'll be in human lives
because i'm you're already starting to
see even out here social breakdowns i
can tell you that within my
circumference there are people who are
opening illegal barber shops out in the
barn and there's people there's an
illegal daycare center right down the
street there are canteens that are
supposed to have take-out food and
they're serving food
with people sitting down and I talk to a
lot of people from of a lot of different
varieties of life and their attitude is
sort of like the 1950s that life was
okay it wasn't great but I'm not going
to destroy my children's livelihood on
the basis of some edict and I'm going to
try to navigate around it and there are
people who when you go to the store here
and a person that's told one paper towel
one toilet paper one hand cleanser and
they walk out with to the clerk is in a
dilemma because she says if I don't if I
allow them to do it they at least let me
charge them and I can get the money from
them but if I say only one they'll just
walk out with two and it's a minor
misdemeanor that's not going to be
prosecuted so there's already a frame of
the society and I think that because
we're such a diverse country and we have
the same diversity as Europe does South
Dakota is not Louisiana Central Valley
is not San Francisco New York is not
North Dakota or South Dakota and we need
to be a little bit more flexible and
while the states if not the counties to
be a little bit more liberal in the way
that they adjudicate the perceived
danger to their subset populations it's
a victory you mentioned models the
University of Washington has been doing
a model on this and revised its numbers
today it's now suggesting that we're
going to hit a peak mortality number
this Sunday which is good news that
means we're coming to to the hump in
this thing we're gonna go downhill after
that here's my question Victor there one
of two ways to look at that either
people can look at the glass half-full
saying that you know we we behaved we
kept our distance and we're keeping this
thing under control or conversely pictre
people could look at this and say you
know here's another example of well you
want to use the phrase fake news lack of
institutional confidence scientists told
us this would happen and it didn't which
of these two do you think is couldn't
prevail the half-full argument or the
half-empty argument well I hope it's
half-full because there is a logic to
the shut
because if you're shut down and you're
getting paid at least some of the
population is and you feel that this is
a sustainable proposition and you're not
aware of the effects on other people in
the self-employed because you're closed
in and then you think that the numbers
have to be ever increasingly more
optimistic you have to get not 2.5
percent LaValley rate but at 1% or half
a percent or you're not going to go out
until it's ninety nine point eight like
a flu year then that becomes a logic of
its own that drives reality so what I'm
worried about is that you have to be we
have to realize that it's not a
dichotomy between the economy and the
coronavirus it's between lives and lives
and we're gonna lose a lot of lives to
suicide substance abuse anxiety and
stress and neglect the doctor's
appointments neglected surgeries if we
don't allow flexibility and people to go
out and as far as the modeling goes this
is the first epidemic as a historian
that I can think of when the modelers
had no accurate information whatsoever
about the denominator the number of
people who actually have it that's only
based on those who were ill or feel that
it exposes and took the effort to go get
tested and most people believe and
that's a model in itself that that's a
tenth of the actual case numbers it's
very important because then that
adjudicates the lafalot e rate per
caseload and then people say well we it
started out one percent now it's 2.5 i'm
oh my gosh but it's bound to go down
when we have more data people who have
antibodies or inactive cases and even
the numerator the number of people who
are dying is subject to interpretation
because a lot of people with Co
committin physical issues and challenges
are being listed as dying from the virus
rather than with it so there's so much
uncertainty and that's reflected in the
inability of the modelers to be correct
we're not going to have 2.2 million
people die as Imperial College and Neil
Ferguson said I don't think the
Washington Mall
would want to go back to their initial
data I don't think the modelers have
convinced gavin newsom three weeks ago
to say that by the end of this month
twenty-five million Californians will
have a case of Cove in nineteen and
given the Litella rates that would imply
a million are gonna die or I don't think
Mike DeWine in Ohio should have said on
March 12 that he thought a hundred
thousand people had an active case when
in fact there were about five there were
about a hundred who had tested positive
maybe five hundred that that might have
had it but he said it was doubling every
six days based on his health
commissioner or health directors
modeling and that would give us today
twenty four days later one point six
million Ohioans and probably forty
thousand dead and as I looked at the
statistics yesterday they have a little
over a hundred dead and about five
thousand cases so there is a downside to
modeling the modeling is that it's we
have to be careful that when you make a
model it's not just a construct it has
consequences and so far I'm afraid that
the media has suggested the consequences
are always good because the pessimist
serves two purposes the pessimists warns
us what could happen and therefore we
get a little hysterical and take the
necessary measures they didn't when he's
found to be incorrect he says if I
hadn't have done it you wouldn't have
taken these measures and then if he's
right then he's sort of a grim person
who was accurate the optimist suffers a
lose-lose situation if he says the
modeler is exaggerating that data is
incomplete the when he's found to be
correct everybody said yeah but it was
only because of the pessimists if people
change their behavior that made your
optimistic assessment possible and if
he's wrong given life and death they say
that they had optimist well you're a
murderer because you said it wouldn't be
this many dead and because of you
people were not cautious so we've got to
keep in mind the psychological landscape
that these models are given there
consequences when somebody tells Western
governments the 2.2 million Americans
are likely to die and that had a lot of
ramifications and they didn't do that
your larger point in 1918 1957 they
didn't I'm not saying they didn't have
the statistical knowledge to make these
models or the data retrieval abilities
but they didn't have confidence that
they were all-knowing and they didn't
have computers and things like that so
they were much more humble about their
own data and the ramifications for
public policy for those just tuning in
I'm Bill Whelan and this is the Hoover
Institution is virtual policy briefing
with Victor Davis Hanson Victor you
mentioned Western government rahm
emanuel the former mayor of chicago and
before that Bill Clinton's chief of
staff famously said never let a serious
crisis go to waste
you've been watching government you've
been watching what's going on in
Congress you've been watching what
California has been doing statewide and
locally tell us what you think
government has done well in terms of
this crisis but also what would alarm
you in the way of civil liberties for
example do you would you be concerned
that maybe a state like Rhode Island
which is just very upset that New
Yorkers are driving through it on the
way to Massachusetts could we see a
situation where maybe a state wants to
shut down its borders because it was to
keep people that thinks they're sick out
how far do you think this will push us
on the civil well I think we're in a
crux right now because we reacted as we
did after Pearl Harbor very rapidly to a
very difficult situation in which the
Chinese Communist government lied about
the nature of the birth of the virus the
transmission rate of the virus the
infectiousness of the virus the spread
of the virus
everything about the virus and that
those on truths were echoed by the World
Health Organization so that when we had
the travel ban of January 31st the World
Health Organization the Chinese
government said it was unnecessary
because you couldn't really transmit
person-to-person as they'd said a couple
weeks earlier given all that and given
all the acrimony and the CDT see
test kits didn't work people who are
told to wear masks not to wear masks not
to work in we're getting to a point
where there is starting to emerge a
consensus that what we're doing now has
reduced the infectiousness but we're
where we're at a crux is this is not a
sustainable situation and we're going to
have to either have regional regional
choice that people can modify the
protocol or we have to realize it if we
don't get these antibody tests we have
no idea of the degree of herdmen
immunity so we'll just go out and then
we'll start the infectious process again
and we'll be able to justify this six or
seven trillion dollar hit in the economy
I guess on the rationale well we gave us
breathing time we didn't get the
hospital's overcrowded and we have the
medical systems intact for the second or
third or fourth wave but each time we
shelter and in space and then we don't
get out we don't develop herd mentality
and then we'll go out again and again
the only rationale I can see that's been
given is that we're buying time for
either anecdotes or vaccinations but
it's not a sustainable situation the
cost to the economy and human lives will
eventually and I think eventually in
terms of the days where rather than
months persuade people that we don't
have a choice but to to gradually be
careful well wear masks proper hygiene
don't go to a sports event maybe but
otherwise you've got to get back to work
I'm rounded before we go to audience
questions you are listening to Victor
Davis Hanson a senior fellow at the
Hoover Institution if you want to learn
more about Victor's research and the
research of other Hoover fellows please
go to our website and that is Hoover org
WWV org now let's take some audience
questions let's begin with Kevin Emma
who writes to Victor quote to my
knowledge after every significant crisis
such as war the economy sees a post-war
boom given the interpretation that we
are in a war with the same historical
rule of
no I think it will I think once you're
in 1919 or 1946 or even Athens after the
war there was a lot of research that I
did earlier on on my career that showed
that all the pessimistic appraisals that
Athens was worn out were false that it
actually had a boom after the
Peloponnesian War and I think the answer
is that people feel they survived
something and they haven't they've been
starved for social action or travel or
restaurants so then they indulge their
appetites and agree even beyond what
they did before the crisis and then
economists can argue whether that makes
up for the low or not but there are so
there are also some auxilary criteria we
should examine we're reaching a point in
the summer where we're gonna have record
low fuel prices so driving getting in a
plane will be very cheap in a way it's
never been we have almost zero interest
rates now you can argue that we're
making a vast redistribution of money
from passbook holders that are used to
two or three or four percent on their
money and they're getting it at zero and
that lost revenue is going to be given
to people who borrow money by zero
interest but whatever view you take of
it it's going to be an economic stimulus
and then we have the government
I guess the logic of the government has
been that we've lost six or seven
trillion dollars of liquidity both
through the stock market and lost GDP
and that was real money that disappeared
and therefore they have to if I could be
still crude Neanderthal like and say
they printed money but they infuse cash
into the system and they claim it will
not be inflationary because we late it's
replacing at least temporarily lost
capital but I'm the point of all that
when the answer is that there are going
to be stimuli after this crisis that I
think will really accelerate it and then
what's very important is what was the
situation before the crisis world war
two there were a lot of people who said
you know what we had a second recession
depression almost in 38:39 where we had
16% unemployment we had negative GDP
it's going to be like that again
and they were very worried but in our
case we went and into this by creating 7
million jobs so when we lose 7 million
jobs we're back to this status on teh
quo of 2016-17 so we had a strong
economy and that Willie was important
Viktor Greg and Chris if written
variations of the same question which is
what is our relation going to look like
with China moving forward what's going
to look like a year or two from now well
China's success was built on the
following assumptions that they were
going to outsource rote labor you could
outsource rote labor to China and they
were going to produce quality
merchandise in a manner that was
consistent with world norms and world
more mercantile and trade protocols and
when they didn't do that with dog food
or drywall or pharmaceuticals and people
said well that was an abuse or that was
an aberration but it didn't endanger the
paradigm and there was a naivete that
said well we can outsource our
pharmaceutical industry to China because
the richer it becomes it's going to
become more liberalized we have 360,000
students in the United States we have
20,000 people flying in per day they are
becoming liberalized and that someday
Shanghai and Peking vjing are going to
look like Paris and San Francisco that's
inevitable they'll be democratic and
liberal minded that's not going to
happen and the reputation of China was
destroyed during this and now I think
the general global perception is when is
the next whoo-ha virus ie
a corona virus number not two but three
coming out of Wuhan and when will it get
nine ten hours to San Francisco Los
Angeles Paris
they've lost their international
credibility because they lied about
every aspect of the virus they
contaminated the World Health
Organization it's lost its credibility
and I don't think it's gonna it's going
to be a sustainable proposition for an
American company to produce ampicillin
only in China I think it's going to have
connotations that they're not national
or nationalistic or patriotic and those
won't be dirty words like they were in
the past so I think things are going to
change I think that's why the Chinese
are so worried and that they're engaged
in this propaganda campaign that they've
weathered the virus better than anybody
that they're helping other countries
because their international reputations
at rock-bottom right Victor Edward
writes quote have the effects of the
pandemic changed our relationship with
our treaties with other nations meaning
are they redefined with new partners or
changing partners
well obviously people are starting to
look at things in a different way and
one of them is Taiwan we always thought
well let's just not talk about Taiwan we
know they're democratic and they play by
the rules but they're small and they
endanger our relationship with this rich
and growing 1.4 billion person China but
now we look at it and we say you know
what they played by all the rules they
were transparent they protected their
population they allowed people to voice
dissension they are a model of what
China should have been and why in the
world do we have to feel guilty about
our support for Taiwan I think the same
is true of Japan and South Korea so I I
see a lot of those countries being far
more afraid than they even were before
the crisis of China and far more
amenable to a closer relationship with
the United States in terms of Europe
it's it's a little bit more problematic
because we will lecture that European
Academical ISM under the eaves
guidelines was sort of a model almost as
if the model in the West will be a
transnational
organization that runs on solar and wind
power
it relies on soft power and it has no
borders the Schengen Agreement and
within a nanosecond during this early
crisis the borders closed and for a
while Germany and other countries in the
north were not willing to send medical
supplies to the south and we had this
sort of anti EU cret creed that a
country where people were dying with no
money couldn't get money from people who
had money when they were not dying as
much and when you add all of that
together with the pre-existing fit
fissures in the EU the north-south
financial crisis with Spain and Italy in
Greece the east-west / immigration with
former Eastern European countries brexit
and then the fights that many EU - NATO
countries had with us over funding of
the Alliance I think the EU is taking a
big hit I don't know who you called the
to paraphrase Henry Kissinger right now
do you call the President of the EU and
as he speak for Italy or is he speak for
Greece does he speak for Germany I don't
know they haven't sorted that out and I
think there's gonna be a lot of pressure
on the EU to revert more to a model of
the original European Common Market that
to stop trade barriers encourage free
trade within European nations but don't
have a EU grandi in Strasbourg trying to
tell a person in Crete how many inches
of banana has to be to be a banana that
type of central control I think is
discredited Victor quarry has a question
for you hello dr. Hansen do you think
this will create a generation similar to
the golden generation will this crisis
affect the toughness of our current
generation well I mean when we talk
about the greatest generation with we
characterize that by two seminal
experiences they went through a
depression from 1929 to 1939 that was a
decade and then they fought a war that
cost the world seventy million people
and almost 500,000 Americans I don't see
this crisis lasting as long as those two
crises are taking as much life from a
much smaller population what I do think
it will do is give a dose of reality to
the average American in this sense there
is an existential fact of life that when
you get up in the morning whether you
you're gonna live the next day depends
on the food you get the water you drink
the sewage that's disposed and the fuel
that warms your apartments or right now
what is important to you is not Michael
Bloomberg financing Chinese companies
half of whom were communist to get them
Western liquidity for them to be viable
and to get a big cut out of it and then
to lecture us that China is a consensual
Society or farmers don't have enough
gray matter and they don't have the
technical skill of people like himself
that is irrelevant right now
in fact it's less than irrelevant it's
dangerous given the naivety of that
thinking that empower the Chinese what
we want are people that know how to drop
something in the ground like Michael
Bloomberg said was easy and didn't take
grave mater it takes a lot of gray
matter and whether you eat tomorrow in
Manhattan depends on somebody over here
in Hanford getting that crop to market
and a trucker from Bakersfield driving
all night and then a stock boy and man
and hadnt working at that supermarket
so I think there's gonna be a much
greater respect and honor for muscular
labor and for people who we felt were
the losers of globalization they didn't
know how to code or they didn't
understand that there was a global
market I think they were gonna see that
if you want a ventilator or you want a
pharmaceutical or you want a head of
lettuce then you're gonna rely on
America and that for maybe just maybe
you didn't think was that important to
the global economy and you thought the
global call me was everything when it
turned out when you looked at the global
economy whether it was the EU model or
the World Health Organization's help
for you or China's role in it it wasn't
too good and what was good was the guy
driving on all night on the interstate
and the guy out there picking working on
a potato harvester or the young kid you
know that's willing to go into the
grocery store and stand there with a
thousand customers every day and be
exposed in theory and sell you things I
think that's gonna be very positive
before I read this question I'd like to
remind the audience Victor Davis Hanson
has written a lot of remarkable books
those times one of which was published
in 2017 it's called the second world
wars now the first global conflict was
fought in one and I mentioned that
because it ties in the next question
Victor which comes from Kevin
he writes quote can you draw a
comparison to the dark days of World War
two in terms of combat deaths and how
the leaders back then did a better job
of communicating with the public about
the sacrifices required then and now and
how we can better carry on today yeah I
think so what was the secret to
Roosevelt's successes he had that gift
that these cities attributed to Pericles
and Themistocles they called it the
prone area of foresight so he wakes up
on December 8 and he's told mr.
Roosevelt the zero was a much better
plane and anything we have it's better
than the Wildcat it's better than the
p40 and by the way our torpedoes are
substandard the long term torpedoes
deadly and by the way they have more
carriers in the Pacific than we do and
by the way they're just about ready to
take over all the European orphan
colonies whether it's Indonesia they've
already taken over Southeast Asia
they're gonna take Singapore we cannot
save the Philippines and Roosevelt was
able to say yes but this is what the
United States was capable in World War
one we took two million people in a year
and a half and landed them in France
without losing one in the middle of a
world epidemic and we eventually produce
more munitions than did our allies put
together of France and Britain we can do
that again and this will be an
for the the unused capacity that way
compression he knew that and he was able
to nurse us along Americans and say this
is what we're gonna do
then Midway he never said that in Midway
was the end of the war he said this is
basically the end of the beginning and
then they're going to be more and more
setbacks but as we proceed we're
learning or on a learning curve we have
more assets and you know what a strange
country that we're fighting in 1939-40
whether we can build a two-bit carrier
like the wasp or the Hornet that's about
eighteen thousand eight nineteen
thousand tons and then suddenly we wake
up and forty two and say oh by the way
we're producing 27 fleet carriers each
one thirty percent bigger than the wasp
and we're gonna pay for it and everybody
says well how are you gonna pay for it
and we're gonna say well everybody was
sort of sheltered at home during the
Depression and now they're working 20
hours a day and they're creating real
wealth and we're gonna build one b20 for
every hour we'll run and by the way
we're going to invent in a new b-29 that
has 50,000 new parts and the cockpit
alone it's just a different attitude of
confidence I think that's what we have
to do that after we get used to this
virus and what we've done it'll be time
to to go out and conquer it I'm really
amazed at all these people that we
thought had lost the American spirit
they're experimenting with ventilators
they're experimenting with off-label
drugs they're in a competition to see
which person can get the vaccination
first it's starting to happen like that
and it's it's pretty amazing and I just
went down to a market and I was talking
to a guy said how long have you been
here and he said I said I've been six
hours I said oh you're gonna be done
- he goes no no I have eight more hours
and I he said I said are you gonna get
the virus because I don't know I said
they're gonna put a plastic barrier
tomorrow this is you know ninety days
into it and rather than damming
everybody that he hasn't had a plastic
berry he's looking forward to it so
there's a lot of people that still have
that spirit from that generation
after we have a question from Donna who
writes quote a huge fan for starters VDH
I live in California
considering the homelessness in
California etcetera why is California
not ended up like New York
I heard there's very good question
immunity we probably had it since the
fall based on flu-like symptoms reported
is this possible
that's a very good question and here at
Stanford University John Yannone DS and
Michael loved it a number of
epidemiologists and statisticians and
bio fitting to figure that out because
it does not make sense we have half of
the nation's homeless about a hundred
and fifty s 180,000 homeless we have one
third of all of the nation's people in
public assistance one out of every three
Californians who is admitted to a
hospital has diabetes or pre-diabetes
which is a risk factor for koba 19 we
have been Laura's lowest number of
nurses per 100,000 population lowest
number of doctors we have the lowest
number of hospital beds almost in the
nation per thousand population with 28
percent of the population lives below
the poverty line level 27 percent were
not born the United States you put all
of that together and people looked at
California and they said it's not in a
situation to resist an epidemic and more
importantly LAX SFO San Diego San Jose
had these direct flights from China and
they're bringing in five six seven
thousand a day of the 15 to 20 thousand
are in the United States 23 direct
flights in this period from SFO alone to
from to and from Wuhan and so people
thought wow it's gonna be terrible Gavin
newson I think three weeks ago said 25
million people are going to have the
virus that would mean a million dead
were a little bit halfway over his
predictions I don't think we're gonna
have 25 million we have about 17,000 but
known cases probably a hundred and
seventy thousand so everybody wants to
know what happened was it california's
warmer
not really the South is warmer at this
time of the year and they're suffering
these are because we're less dense than
New York maybe but why would we have
twice the population of New York and
1/10 the death toll or 120th 130th the
caseload and a lot of people thought
women let's look at this a different way
maybe that flu that he got and the flu
that she got in November and just maybe
November December or in January in
February we were exposed to the first
wave and while we didn't get herd
immunity we got a lot of people maybe 10
or 15 percent of the population got that
flu that the CDC said was not influenza
a flu shots did not work on it and it
might not have been the flu we were we
were told we had 16 outbreaks of
influenza even though that the CDC did
not test very many of them all we were
told is those who did get tested it was
not influenza A might have been B where
I'm getting out is desperate for
explanation of the inexplicable and for
those who say well we had shelter in
place but the day that the governor
enacted that within two days I think it
was ten other states and within three
days New York did it so I don't think
that I think was helpful but I don't
think that explains the California
paradox and we don't know what the
answer is hopefully with this new anti
by test antibody testing from these
Stanford doctors we'll know very quickly
Viktor Kenneth wants you to break out
your crystal ball here's this question
what effect will this crisis have on the
November elections both President and
Congress let me add Victor that may be
an interesting angle we'll pursue here
is how does Trump have now have to
calibrate his message but also Joe Biden
because you look at the history of
challengers who knock off incumbents
Victor they don't get the job by saying
coulda woulda shoulda they have to offer
agendas of their own so how do you think
this is affected in the election whether
we like it or not
this virus has been weaponized and by
that I mean every decision is what a
massage or modulated in the media either
pro or against Trump for the left the
hard left they see it in the manner
creasing Li that it will do what Robert
Mueller and impeachment did not in other
words it'll show the world what they
have been claiming all along at Trump is
a nap and the economy his only signature
issue they feel will will crash and then
they will win and the right says this
was a existential threat but it's
probably not the existential threat that
killed 116 in 1957 or maybe not even in
2017 that killed 60,000 we can handle it
we've got to get back quicker and the
economy will recover in time for the
election that's whether we like to admit
that arithmetic of death that's what it
is and that color is almost everything
that a person says so I never thought
we'd get to the level of politico's
ation when a president says the
anti-malarial drug seems to work and we
have anecdotal evidence the CDC is
taking us seriously they're going to
test and then that becomes a either
Trump was inspired and save lives or our
Trump as a quack doctor Trump killed
will kill people but that's the level of
political discourse that we've descended
to and Joe Biden I think he thought that
he would it seemed logical
he had moments of enfeebling us on the
campaign trail he did well against
Bernie Sanders net last debate and
people thought you know what Joe will go
back to his home he'll rest he's 77 and
then he will do an FDR fireside chat and
antithesis to the daily Graham bumptious
Trump and his sobriety will impress
people well he started off teleprompting
and then
Hauk and next temporary and they try
both in the neither work so he didn't
not he didn't provide at least in temple
and comportment and assurance and
anecdote to trump but more importantly
he started with a false premise that
Trump had rejected all his medical
advice anti-assignment scientist just
like he doesn't believe in global
warming the Paris he'll do the same
thing but actually Trump has accepted
almost all of the recommendations from
science and that put Biden in an
untenable situation to disagree with
Trump but by extension he's disagreeing
with science I'll give you one example
so Trump issues a travel ban on January
31st against all of these suggestions of
China the world community even and the
World Health Organization and some of
his own advisers like Anthony Fauci had
switched they said it wasn't Edison now
it's necessary he does out immediately
Biden feels he did that I have to be
against it so he says that was miss you
know that was in a faux beacon races and
that's what he was referring to but then
all of a sudden it works it stops the
twenty thousand coming and then the next
day Trump has a ban against Africa
because they were having connecting
flights ten days later Europe connecting
flights Biden sort of mumbles can't have
that either and then he's in a dilemma
how do I explain that I criticize
something that night now endorse well I
meant that he used the word Chinese
virus that was what I meant well he
didn't mean that
so now he's saying well I would have
done I would have had the ban but I
would have done it earlier and so what
was that mean you would you would have
had President Biden would have said I
don't want to be xenophobic and racist
so I'm gonna stop all Chinese people
come in and on January 10th but I won't
call them Chinese how's that it gets
into the fantastical and the surreal so
what he needs to do it is just being
pure people look at Trump and when Trump
does something well follows advice or
rejects bad advising says I would do the
same thing and the long run he would do
as well as being
Pavlovian and his attack on every single
thing that that Trump does in the same
the same thing about criticizing bi and
he loses his his train of thought his
sentence structure but sometimes he's
very clear and so people can't say well
he's demented they can say he has bouts
of it and we don't they seem to be
increasing but you don't want to say he
can't string together of spins because
sometimes you can you got to be
empirical and all these things if you
can okay Victor we have one last
question that comes from Timothy he
writes dr. Hanson I am reading your book
a war like no other and you speak to how
the Athenians emptied their treachery
and pulled back from defending their
farm lands and responses to the
attacking Spartans a strategy to write
out the war that appeared to be an
unsustainable strategy for them how do
we convince Americans the response to
kovat 19 can't rely on government
handouts long term or not trying to
restart the economy it's a very good
point I think the questioner is worried
that we're creating a culture that we
did not intend that the longer that
Americans are sheltered at home and the
longer that we have some compensation
will we'll lose the the cause and effect
relationship that you go out and work
and then that creates capital and money
and when you stay home you're not
creating goods and services you and the
country at large or impoverished and you
can't just print money and so and you
create a culture of complacency and you
get a fear of the virus what you want is
a since the defiance you're going to say
well as soon as we get these antibodies
testing we're gonna see that this damn
virus does not kill you know three out
of every hundred it probably kills one
or two out of every thousand if it's
like the flu then damn it we went
through the 2009 and the 2017 flu our
grandparents and our parents survived 57
and that's what we're gonna do and then
you know what with this cheap gas and
this interest I'm gonna go out and
really get back into it that's the
attitude you got to have right I'm
worried that the longer that we get into
this attitude the more
complacent we become an unless no more
timid the more frightened we become and
you can start to see it some when I
start to see certain areas that I go out
to people or even though the the rates
of death have not met the modelers
pessimistic expectations people are
becoming more pessimistic because the
media focuses on the young man who was
22 years old who suddenly died in three
days rather than the person that was
much more typical it was 86 and had
congestive heart failure and diabetes
and that's the scarify rare exception is
sensationalized in the way that the
normal tragic caseload is not and so I
think we have to to be that way but we
don't we have to let counties and States
adapt and be fluid as you mentioned and
then that will that will create
confidence in optimism we if we hear a
governor or a bold mayor or a world
county board say you know what we're
going to to be hygienic social
distancing mass but we're gonna go out
and work and others will fall suit and
we'll have a chain reaction Victor I've
enjoyed this conversation I'm certain
the audience has as well this is your
policy briefing though my friend and so
it's only appropriate that you get the
phone of work all I can say is that
we've all been here before we've dealt
with a57 we built were the two thousand
nine we built with a two thousand
seventeen and eighteen I know that the
experts tell us that a coronavirus is
different because it has the potential
to be much more infectious and much more
lethal but we're not the same people we
were in 2009 or even 17 we proceeded a
geometric rate as well we're better
connected we have better information we
have more medical protocols we have a
worldwide Nobel Prize trace right now to
find not just a vaccination but
effective anecdote and I think that
geometrically we're getting better than
the viruses who should be confident
about that
Victor thinks about for a great
conversation have a good day my friend
thank you for having me that's it for
today's virtual policy briefing we hope
you enjoyed the conversation with
redoubtable Victor Davis Hanson the
Hoover Institution is doing these twice
a week on Tuesdays and Thursdays in fact
our next virtual policy briefing will be
Tuesday April the 14th at 11 a.m.
Pacific time 1:00 p.m. Eastern time the
subject is covin 19 in national security
and the guests will be secretary
Condoleezza Rice think you've heard of
her Condoleezza Rice is a senior fellow
on public policy at the Hoover
Institution she served as a 66 secretary
of state of the United States the second
woman and first african-american woman
to hold the post and effective this
September Secretary Rice will be the
next director of the Hoover Institution
and we're all very excited about that
here on the farm you could join
Tuesday's briefing at the same link you
signed in on today and if you'd like to
see more a fellow analysis other than a
coronavirus go to Hoover dot org where
we've set up an entire section dated
solely to the Cova 19 research thanks
again for taking part of the briefing
stay safe stay healthy stay strong we'll
see you soon
[Music]